LICENSE INFORMATION DOCUMENT	 
 
Program Name: 	 
HCL Volt MX 9.5.15
  
The following terms apply to the use of the Program: 

Definitions:
Licensee. For the purposes of this License Information Document, Licensee shall also mean Customer, an 
End User or other holder of an entitlement to which the License Information Document relates.
 
  
Limited use right 	 
As described in the HCL Master License Agreement available at: 
https://www.hcltechsw.com/wps/portal/resources/master-agreements or the applicable agreement between 
HCL and Licensee ("MLA") and this License Information Document, HCL grants Licensee a limited 
right to use the Program. This right is limited to the level of Authorized Use defined in License Metric 
below or other specified level of use, paid for by Licensee and evidenced by the proof of entitlement. 
Licensee's use may also be subject to other restrictions as prescribed in this License Information 
Document.

Supporting Programs
Supporting programs are additional software provided to Licensee to support the operation and 
functionality of the Program (“Supporting Programs”). Licensee is authorized to install and use the 
Supporting Programs listed below in accordance with the license grant in the Master License Agreement, 
the relevant Order or such other relevant agreement for the Program only. The Supporting Programs may 
not be used for any other purpose. 
A Supporting Program may be subject to the terms of a separate License Information Document 
(published here: HCL License Agreements (hcltechsw.com) and those terms, if any, shall also apply to 
the use of that Supporting Program. In the event of conflict, the terms in this License Information 
document supersede the terms of the Supporting Program. Sufficient entitlements to the Program must be 
obtained, as a whole, to cover installation and use of all of the Supporting Programs unless separate 
entitlements are provided within this License Information document. When Licensee's right to use the 
Program expires or terminates, Licensee must discontinue use, destroy or promptly return all copies of the 
Supporting Programs to HCL or the party from whom the Program was acquired. If use of the Supporting 
Programs is required beyond the limits of the Proof of Entitlement please contact a HCL sales 
representative or the relevant third party to obtain the appropriate license. 
The following are Supporting Programs licensed with the Program: 

•	HCL Leap

The following restrictions apply to the use of the Supporting Programs:
Notwithstanding any provision in this License Information document, Licensee is permitted to use only 
the following components or functions of the identified Supporting Program:

•	HCL Leap may only be used by Volt MX B2E license holders and for an equivalent number of 
entitled users. 

•	The entitlement to HCL Leap provided by Volt MX does not include entitlement to IBM 
WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment or to IBM DB2 Advanced Workgroup Server 
Edition ("IBM DB2").


Software Development Kit  	 
If the Program includes a Software Development Kit ("SDK"), the terms and conditions of this 
paragraph apply solely for the use of the SDK.  The SDK may include software, APIs and 
associated documentation.  The SDK is provided solely for Licensee's internal use to develop 
software that enables the integration of third party software or hardware with the Program, or to 
develop software that functions with the Program, such as an agent.  Licensee’s use of the SDK 
is restricted solely to enhance Licensee’s internal use of the Program.  No distribution rights of 
any kind are granted to Licensee regarding the Program.  In addition to the limitations on use set 
forth in the MLA and License Information Document, Licensee may not reproduce, disclose, 
market, or distribute the SDK or the documentation or any applications containing any 
executable versions of the SDK to third parties, on the internet, or use such executables in excess 
of the applicable authorized use limitation.  If there is a conflict between the terms of this section 
and the terms of any other section in MLA and License Information Document, the terms of this 
section will prevail solely with respect to the use of the SDK. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT 
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING 
CONTAINED HEREIN TO THE CONTRARY, THE SDK IS PROVIDED AND LICENSED 
"AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION OF ANY KIND, EITHER 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR 
REPRESENTATIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR 
FITNESS FOR PURPOSE, AS WELL AS ANY EXPRESS WARRANTIES PROVIDED 
ELSEWHERE IN THIS AGREEMENT. HCL WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY COSTS OR 
DAMAGES AND WILL NOT INDEMNIFY OR DEFEND LICENSEE TO THE EXTENT 
SUCH ACTION IS BASED UPON A CLAIM ARISING FROM SDK.

Redistributables 	 
The Program may include  third party re-distributable components listed in the table below 
("Redistributable Code") which Licensee is authorized to install use and redistribute for its own internal 
business purposes or where permitted and as relevant, as part and in support of Licensee’s application. 
Such use shall be in accordance with any applicable third party license terms and conditions.  When 
Licensee's right to use the Program expires or terminates and unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties in 
the MLA, Licensee must discontinue use, destroy or promptly return all copies of the Redistributable 
Code to HCL.

Source Components and Sample Materials   
The Program may include some components in source code form ("Source Components") and other 
materials identified as "Sample Materials" Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and 
Sample Materials for internal use only provided such use is within the limits of the license rights under 
this License Information document and Agreement, provided however that Licensee may not alter or 
delete any copyright information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample 
Materials. HCL provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and 
"AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING 
THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
 
Privacy 	 
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that HCL may use third party software, cookie and tracking 
technologies to collect, maintain, process and use analytics data and personal information in gathering 
product usage statistics and information designed to help improve user experience and/or to tailor	 
interactions with users in accordance with the HCL Privacy Statement, available at:	 
https://www.hcltech.com/privacy-statement. 


Third Party Data and Services 
The Program may contain links to or be used to access third party data services, databases, web services, 
software, or other third party content (all, "content"). Access to this content is provided "AS-IS", WITH 
NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF 
TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
Access can be terminated by the relevant third parties at their sole discretion at any time. In the event 
that Third Party Software is included in the Program(s), such Third Party Software is made 
available to Licensee in accordance with the licenses for such Third Party Software. Licensee may 
be required to enter into separate agreements with the third parties for the access to or use of such content. 
HCL is not a party to any such separate agreements and as an express condition of this license Licensee 
agrees to comply with the terms of such separate agreements. 

Program-unique Terms 

The following component parts are licensed for use with the Program 
HCL Volt Flare 
HCL Volt Foundry 
HCL Volt Iris 

The following restrictions apply to the use of the Program
Israel. This product requires, for each Customer in Israel, an Encryption License import from MOD, if not 
for internal use.	 
France. French encryption import requirements met – ANSSI Declaration Number 21060215, dated 
15JUN2021. 	

Metric
The following units of measure may apply to Licensee's use of the Program:

”Unique User”
User is a unique person or entity that uses any customer application, developed on the HCL Volt MX 
software, at least once per any contract year and is identified by either their user ID when authenticating 
within the application or by a unique device identifier when using the application without authenticating.  
Multiple devices used under the same authenticated user ID count as one User.  Multiple devices used by 
anonymous users each count as a User.  The Program may be installed on any number of computers or 
servers and each Unique User may have simultaneous access to any number of instances of the Program 
at one time. Licensee must obtain separate, dedicated entitlements for each Unique User given access to 
the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, device, or 
application server) through any means. An entitlement for an Authorized User is unique to that Unique 
User and may not be shared, nor may it be reassigned other than for the permanent transfer of the Unique 
User entitlement to another person or entity.



Named User
Named User is defined as an employee, contractor, or outsource provider under the employment (direct 
or contractually) of the Customer or Customer’s member organizations with a unique identifying 
username, password, or combination of the two that uses a B2E use case app at least once in a standard 
calendar quarter. Multiple devices used under the same username, password, or combination of the two, 
count as one Named User. 

B2E/B2B
B2E Use Case is defined as apps designed for an audience of employees, contractors, non-employee 
partners, affiliates or outsource providers under the employment (directly or contractually) of the 
customer/company.  

B2C 
B2C Use Cases are defined as apps designed for an audience of non-employee customers not supported 
by the B2E use case. Each use case licensed by Customer, supported by a hosted cloud environment, 
will require a separate cloud instance for each use case. The maximum number of apps that can be 
hosted on any one cloud instance is twenty.

Session 
Session is defined as user interaction with an application either as an interactive session or triggered 
application logic executed in the background as a non-interactive session. The Session begins when the 
app is started. It is continued until the app is idle for thirty (30) minutes or until the user ends the app 
process or operating system explicitly closing the app. The maximum duration for a session is four (4) 
hours. If an app session continues for four (4) hours, a new session is automatically created. 

Supported Channels 
Supported Channels means a specified device category or other channel supported by the platform, 
which include one or more of the following: (i) native applications on handheld mobile devices; (ii) native 
applications on tablet devices; (iii) mobile web browser applications for handheld mobile devices and 
tablets); (iv) desktop web browser applications; and (v) progressive web applications. 
 


  


